# 2024/11/06
## Agenda (proposal)
(Floating point numbers)
In the last meeting, we have identified that precision and accuracy (of computations) is an issue.
Here is a list of questions to be discussed (and possibly addressed) :
- Current practices for non-AI systems
    - How are requirements about computation errors expressed ?
    - How are those requirements verified ?
    - What are the impacts of errors on repeatability, debuggability ?
- Sources of errors
    - What are the sources of errors ?
    - How does time impact errors ?
    - Are all hardware (GPUs, accelerators) implementing the IEEE754 standard ?
    - Are all hardware devices IEEE754 compliant (GPUs, FPGA and ASIC accelerators) ?
    - What about the ML-specific formats (Tensor32,...) ?
- Means of analysis 
    - What are the technical means available to estimate the impact of errors on results?
- Effects of FP errors on ML
    - To what extent is the question of computation errors pertinent with respect to the other sources of errors in Machine Learning algorithms (or 'how do computaton errors compare to other sources of errors")?
    - Effects on robustness
    - Use of formal methods
- Specification
    - How can we specify errors at the model level?
    - What are the derived requirements to be introduced to handle/preent computation errors?
- General questions
    - Do we need the intervention of FP experts?

# 2024/10/23
## Agenda  (proposal)
(shorter meeting due to holidays)

# 2024/10/02
## Agenda
- Presentation of "templates" to start of activies on
    - definition of [use cases, models, operators](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/blob/ericjenn-srpwg-wg1/safety-related-profile/documents/usecases.md)
    - elicitation of [needs](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/blob/ericjenn-srpwg-wg1/safety-related-profile/documents/needs.md)
    - identificaiton of [issues ](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/blob/ericjenn-srpwg-wg1/safety-related-profile/documents/issues.md)
- Discussion about the creation of a sub-group (who?)
    - on formal methods
    - on numerical issues (?)
- Status of integration with ONNX community
    - Brief presentation of the Linux Fundation support to our activities (=> Andreas, Friday, report during next meeting)
  
## Participants
(Was not able to retrieve the list from TEAMS)
## Minutes
- See agenda
  
### About the “Steering Committee”
- EMB will not be able to participate to our periodic meetings (every two weeks) but is nevertheless willing to contribute to our effort via a *Streeing Committe* (SC). The objective of the SC is to monitor important (”key”) moments in the progression of activities (“gates” , “phase transitions”, etc.).
- The SC shall be planned in advance. Basically: one SC every SC will be fine.
- [ ] (A008 - leads) Plan SC meetings

### About the templates
3 “template” document were presented (see link above)
- “Issues template”
    - Dumitru proposes to add a description / illustration of the effects of an issue. ⇒ to be added in the template
    - Concerning issue #2 (order of operations)
        - Dumitru (following a remark already done by Sebastian, a long time ago…)  emphasizes that there is not problem of non determinism / interpretation on the order of processing of operator: if one follows the topological ordering,  result of floating point computations are completely and unambiguoulsy determined. There may still be issues with random numbers.
        - [ ]  (A009 - Dumitru) Correct  / complete description of issue #2
- Use case / scope template
    - Nicolas : a description can simply refer to an existing model in the Hugging Face repository using a hypertext link.
    - Nicolas proposes a script to extract the list of operators. (To be placed in the “tools” area)...
    - [ ] (A010 - leads) Create a “tools” area
    - [ ] (A011 - Nicolas) Deposit his operator extraction tool in the repository
    - [ ] (A012 - Nicolas) Review the the "issues" document
  
### About sub-groups

- Floating point computation
    - [ ]  (A013 - leads) Organize a meeting on numerical computations (fp-sg)
    - [ ]  (A014 - fp-sg) Provide a clear statement of the numerical computations issues.

- Formal methods
    - The PoC must be completed, incl. aspect about formal methods
    - The value of a formal specification must be estimated (value in terms of communication, automation,…)
    - A formal language must be selected.
    - This is to be covered by the fm-sg, see action A005

Other (off-meeting) 
- [ ]  (Nicolas) See if we can involve the authors of the paper on ONNX conversion in order to identify Exploiter le papier / probblème
      
#### New actions
- [ ] (A008 - leads) Plan SC meetings
- [ ] (A009 - Dumitru) Correct  / complete description of issue #2
- [X] (A010 - leads) Create a “tools” area <closed on 03/10>
- [X] (A011 - Nicolas) Deposit his operator extraction tool in the repository. <closed on 03/10>
- [ ] (A012 - Nicolas) Review the the "issues" document
- [ ] (A013 - leads) Organize a meeting on numerical computations (fp-sg)
- [ ] (A014 - fp-sg) Provide a clear statement of the numerical computations issues.

#### Previous actions
- [X] (A001 - Embraer) Clarify the role / organisation of the "Steering Committe". <closed on 02/10>
- [ ] (A002 - all) Add / remove your name for the [participant list ](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/blob/da1fb275bcbfb32af95fd8ef54589cde0e14f927/safety-related-profile/meetings/team.md) and provide information about your possible contribution
- [X] (A003 - leads) Create templates to start feeding the list of **use cases**, **needs**, **requirements**, **issues**. <closed on 02/10>
- [ ] (A004 - all) Propose a short communication during the next WG meetings. The list is [here](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/blob/da1fb275bcbfb32af95fd8ef54589cde0e14f927/safety-related-profile/meetings/presentation_proposals.md).
- [ ] (A005 - leads) Organize sub-group on formal methods (fm-sg).
- [ ] (A006 - leads) Finalize the organization of the WG's repository. Define procedure to use it (inc. issues, wiki,...)
- [ ] (A007 - leads) Setup a mailing list

#### Closed actions
(to be completed)
